So unless there are any questions,
which of course are welcome at any time,
let us take a moment to try and play
around on our own and using what we've
seen so far and our friend MDN if we need,
let's try to figure out.
We can take maybe five minutes,
to figure out what you'd need to type
in the console to retrieve
these various things.
So first of all, we're gonna try to get
all of the p elements then we're gonna try
to get the text on the page.
On our Tic Tac Toe page, this is all
gonna be on our Tic Tac Toe page.
I'm gonna try to get the p elements, we're
gonna try to get the text X like this
little symbol X here in the player X,
Anjana.
We're gonna try to get
the number of squares,
squares that are represented
in the tic tac toe board.
And then we're gonna try to get the text
"a game you know" from the top of
the page.
So this is your scavenger hunt,
should you choose to accept it.
So let's take a few minutes,
and then we'll review together.
Welcome back all right,
how did this scavenger hunt go?
Did we find all of the things
we were looking for?
Let's find out [LAUGH] Okay, so
your first task was to retrieve
all of the p elements in the page,
let's clear out our previous work here.
And who could walk me through how
they found all of the p elements?
Maybe somebody from the classroom?
How about Jason any.
>> I tried using getElementsByName.
>> Okay, so.
>> And it returned a NodeList but
I don't think that's quite right.
>> Well, let's try it out.
So what did you type
in to get elements by?
>> I typed in document.getElementsByName,
and I put
>> getElementsBy, okay,
so you might also find in your browser
console you might get some helpful, well,
maybe helpful, the browser trying to
be helpful, some completions here.
So if I type in getElementsBy I get some
options here, one of them is ByName.
So let's maybe just make sure that we're
talking about the right thing here.
We also see something else
called getElementsByClassName,
getElementsByTagName, and
then some other thing called TagNameNS.
Where can I go if I wanna find out what
these methods do and which one I want?
>> MDN
>> MDN,
yes, this is gonna be the answer
to a lot of questions I ask.
Excellent, so let's figure out so
getElementsByName,
if I type that in,
that's gonna take me to the page.
And this is gonna say okay,
the getElementsByName method of
the document object returns a node lists
collection of elements with a given
name attribute in the document.
Okay, let's scroll down and
see kind of what it means.
So in this case, for
example, let's say we have
a document where we have some content and
let me make that a little bigger.
In this case some input elements that
have an attribute name defined on them.
so getElementByName would be the perfect
thing to use if we're trying to pull out
elements with that particular name.
In this case, in our document,
we don't have a lot of
name attributes defined.
In this case the p elements,
they have an ID attribute,
they have a class attribute but they don't
really have a name attribute defined.
So what I actually could
use is if I just want to
pick them out by the fact
that they are p elements,
paragraph elements, so
in that case we can check out
the similarly named getElementsByTagName.
Spell, and in this case it's
going to return a live HTML
collection of elements
with the given tag name.
So in this case, let's say we have a table
element which has some td within it,
that sort of thing, we can select
that with the getElementsByTagName.
So in this case, we're gonna get
slightly different things if we do
getElementsByName("p") I get an,
I do get a NodeList.
It's a collection of things,
but how many things are in it?
>> Zero.
>> Zero, how could I check that?
How can I find out how many things
are in a collection of things?
.length, yes, see, we're already
learning these spells, it's great.
We're witches already.
[LAUGH] But,
if I try document.getElementByTagName("p")
I get a slightly different
type of collection,
I get an HTML collection and
in this case if I try .length on that,
I can see that I do have two elements.
So I have those two p elements.
So this is great and totally great
point that you raised here about
this other method that we discovered.
We'll talk about what
the method is tomorrow, but
this spell that we discovered
getElementsByName is another option if you
are trying to find elements with
the particular name attribute.
Okay, how about number two,
the text X, maybe I'll ask Jason for
this one since we talked
about it a little bit.
I'm sorry, Paul,
I just said Jason, Paul yes.
>> I just did console.log and
then just put the X in there.
>> Okay, so one way we can get the value
X is by whoops, console.log X,
we saw console.log is a spell
that I showed earlier that can
type something or
print something out into our web console.
So if I want a letter X,
I can say console.log(X").
And this will print out an x that
I have told it to print out.
So this is valid and
we're gonna use a lot of console
logging in our JavaScript lives.
And we're gonna talk later about console
log, and we're gonna talk later about what
this undefined, where it is that
just mysteriously popped up here.
But in terms of our scavenger hunt,
what we're trying to do is pick out,
not just any X which in this case,
I've kind of conjured a new X into
existence by typing it in
quotes into the console.
But what I want is actually
the letter X that's right there,
the letter X between the words player and
Anjana.
So if we dig into our document in
the HTML inspector in our dev tools,
we can see that this letter X, It shows
up in here inside of there's this header,
there's the div with the players.
There's a P with id p1,
then there's a span with idp1 symbol,
and then there's an X.
So can we use that information
to pull out not just any X but
the X that is in the HTML document.
Anybody wanna help?
>> document.querySelector("ap1-symbol")
and
then enter text.
>> Okay, so
we can do document.querySelector.
>> Or text content.
>> And then in quotes a CSS selector for
an individual element,
in this case the id which, we said we
can use that hash symbol in CSS to
select the id so
this will get us that span element.
Excellent, thank you Chad, and
then, if I type .textContent for
example, then I will get whatever is
inside of the element with that id.
So this is a totally valid way
to pull out that particular X.
Excellent point,
did anybody have a different solution?
Like I said, there's always multiple ways
to do things, not always but usually.
>> There was one with
the same basic concept but
using document.query,
sorry, getelementById.
>> Right, okay, so
we could do document.getElementById
you can also use tab to complete
if your browsers dev tools
are offering you options you
can press tab to complete
document.getElementById and then a, quote,
double quotes and the name of
the id no hash this time, right?
So we could do p1-symbol,
that's gonna get us that span element,
same element as query selector#p1-symbol.
And then I can do texContent and
pull out the X.
Excellent, so these are both valid,
good hunting, yes question.
>> Hey miss I have undefined.
>> Okay, in yours you have undefined so
what did you pull out?
What did you type in?
>>
document.getElementById("p1-symbol.textco-
ntent"), how did I spell that?
>> So if I typed in, let's say, text,
maybe this happens to me all the time.
So do you noticed when I do textContent,
if I autocomplete,
I'll see it's the capital C, for example,
maybe I just was typing really fast and
I typed it all lowercase,
and then we get undefined.
What is that?
What does that mean?
And why do we get that?
We are going to explore later today.
So I'm gonna put a pin in that,
but this raises two points.
Number one,
undefined is something that we're gonna,
we've already seen it crop up once or
twice now.
We're going to talk about it later today.
And case sensitivity, so the names of
these things document.getElementById,
querySelector, etcetera,
the little letters and the big letters,
it matters to JavaScript.
So and spelling and things like that
sometimes, this happens all the time.
Where something, I do this every
single time, I type document
getElementBy capital I, capital D,
I do this all the time, and then I get.
No, that's not a function.
I don't know what you're talking about.
So JavaScript can be very picky sometimes
about spelling and things like that.
Can also be very loosey-goosey and not
care sometimes when you wish it would care
and tell you that you've made a mistake.
So we're gonna be working through all this
and we're gonna be talking about how we
can debug when we're
having unexpected results.
But later today, we're gonna talk
about what that undefined is and
why It shows up sometimes.
Great, great, great point, great question.
>> I'm gonna say the up button on
my browser allows me to go back
to what I had before so
I can fix a letter and re-execute.
>> Great discovery, excellent.
So if you press in your
browser's dev tools Usually,
if you press up in the console, you'll
get the last thing that you entered.
And if you keep pressing up, you'll get
the previous things that you entered,
as far back as you've been working
in this tab or in this window.
So, if I type up and I see, okay,
I misspelled, I put capital I,
capital D there, I can just edit that.
And now I can use it as let's say
what was it p1-symbol as expected.
So super handy also if you're like, No,
actually I meant to get p2-symbol
makes your life easier.
So pressing up when you wanna go back in
history, excellent discovery by OJ here.
And then also when your lazy as
many of us developers are, and
you want to just complete something and
I've only typed getEleme I can press tab,
and it will complete whatever
the auto suggest was suggesting.
Okay, let's continue with our
scavenger hunt the number of
squares in the tic tac toe board.
Anybody yet Steven?
>> So I did querySelector all the squares,
and then give me the link.
>> Okay, so can you walk me through
what you typed to get all this.
>> document.querySelectorAll.
>> queryselectorAll.
>> And CSSSelectorSquare.
>> Okay, and so then the quotes and
then what how do we select for?
>> .square.
.square, okay.
That's going to give any element
with the class of square,
which happens to be
applied in this document.
>> No .link.
>> Yep so in this document,
if we drill down in our HTML inspector,
we notice that all of the squares in
the board have this class applied.
So that is, in this particular webpage,
that is a great way to pull them out.
So if we do .square,
we get all of those and then.
>> .length.
>> .length tells me how many there are.
There are nine, as we would expect for
a tic tac toe board.
Excellent, thanks so much, Steven.
How about the text from the page
that says "a game you know".
In this case, it shows up
underneath the main page header.
So if we look in our HTML,
collapse a few things here,
we noticed that is in
the header element in an h2.
So can anybody walk through what I
would need to do to pull out this text?
And maybe if someone is in the chat,
we can also find out from there.
Now, in this case,
I don't have a lot to work with, right?
I don't have an id on this element,
I don't have a class on this element,
so what else can I work with?
Yeah, OJ.
>> The
document.querySelector("h2.textContent").
>> Great, okay,
document.querySelector("h2.textContent")
A game you know,
love it, excellent work.
All right, fabulous hunting, everyone.
We turned up all of these things.
[LAUGH] Any questions so far?
Or are we itching to not just find things
in the page, but bend them to our will?
>> So I did querySelector("h2.length") and
then it said undefined.
I'm just trying to understand
if there is something in there,
why would it be undefined?
>> Interesting, okay, so
if we do document.querySelector("
h2.length") undefined.
Our friend undefined showing up yet again.
We're gonna talk later about why this is
but essentially so what happens when I
get querySelector("h2") by itself is
that I get the h2 element itself.
Or more specifically I get
a JavaScripty representation of that
element that I can work with.
Were gonna talk later
today about objects and
we they have a certain aspect you could
say called properties that I can access.
So in this case, if I open up this
h2 element in my dev tools and
I look through.
These are all different values
that this knows about and
the names that I'm seeing
here like like inner text or
children etcetera these are properties on
the object that represents my h2 element.
We're gonna talk more about objects and
properties later.
But suffice it to say when I type in
.length JavaScript is looking at this
list of things that it knows about and
it's looking for a length.
And it's like I don't know
about a length on this element.
However, and we're gonna see this later,
if I were to do textContent.length,
then I get something.
And we're gonna talk later
about what that is and why.
So this is another great discovery.
I love all these intrepid explorations and
discoveries that we're
making already today.